Politics of Tamil Nadu
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigation
Jump to search
See also: List of Chief Ministers of Tamil Nadu, Tamil Nadu Assembly Election 2006, and Dravidian people
This article is part of a series on
Government and Politics of Tamil Nadu
TamilNadu Logo.svg
State of Tamil Nadu
????????? ???????
State Government
[show]
Elections
[show]
Politics
[show]
Local Government
[show]

    vte

Main article: Elections in Tamil Nadu

Politics of Tamil Nadu is the politics related to the Indian state of Tamil Nadu.
Contents

    1 History of Tamil Nadu politics
        1.1 Formation of Tamil Nadu
        1.2 Pre-Dravidian politics of Tamil Nadu
        1.3 Rise of Dravidian politics
        1.4 Tamil Nationalism in politics
    2 Political culture of Tamil Nadu
    3 Political parties of Tamil Nadu
        3.1 Tamil national parties
        3.2 Dravidian parties
        3.3 Indian national parties
        3.4 Religious parties
        3.5 Caste parties
        3.6 Dalit rights parties
        3.7 Socialist parties
        3.8 Agrarian parties
    4 See also
    5 References

History of Tamil Nadu politics
Formation of Tamil Nadu
See also: Madras State
[icon]	
This section needs expansion with: You can help improve this page by writing about the formation of Tamil Nadu.. You can help by adding to it. (February 2017)
Pre-Dravidian politics of Tamil Nadu
[icon]	
This section needs expansion with: You can help improve this page by writing about the Pre-Dravidian political history of Tamil Nadu.. You can help by adding to it. (February 2017)

Indian National Congress dominated the political scene in the initial years post independence with leaders like C. Rajagopalachari and K. Kamaraj. The political influence shifted from national politics towards regional politics with rise of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in the late 1960s.
Rise of Dravidian politics
	
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (February 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Main article: Rise of Dravidian parties to power in Tamil Nadu

Dravidian parties have dominated state politics since 1967. One of the earliest regional parties was the South Indian Welfare Association, which was founded in 1916. It came to be known as the Justice Party after the name of its English-language daily, Justice. E.V. Ramasami, popularly known as "Periyar", renamed the party Dravidar Kazhagam in 1944. DK was a non-political party which demanded the establishment of an independent state called Dravida Nadu. However, due to the differences between its two leaders Periyar and C.N. Annadurai, the party was split. Annadurai left the party to form the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK). The DMK decided to enter into politics in 1956.

The Anti-Hindi agitations in the mid-1960s made the DMK more popular and more powerful political force in the state. The DMK routed the Indian National Congress party in the 1967 elections and took control of the state government, ending Congress's stronghold in Tamil Nadu. C.N. Annadurai became the DMK's first Chief Minister, and Muthuvel Karunanidhi took over as Chief Minister and party leader after Annadurai's death in 1969.Karunanidhi's leadership was soon challenged by M.G. Ramachandran, popularly known as MGR. In 1972, he split from DMK and formed the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). He was the Chief Minister of the state from 1977 until his death in 1987. After the death of MGR, the party split again into two factions, one led by Janaki Ramachandran, wife of MGR, and the other led by J. Jayalalithaa. After the defeat of AIADMK in 1989 assembly polls, both factions were merged and Jayalalithaa took control of the party. She was elected as the General Secretary of the unified AIADMK. There have been splits in both the DMK and the AIADMK, but since 1967 one of those two parties has held power in the state. In the State elections after M.G. Ramachandran's death, neither of the two parties could come back to power in consecutive assembly elections. Governments were formed by: DMK in 1989, AIADMK in 1991, DMK alliance in 1996, AIADMK alliance in 2001, DMK alliance in 2006 and AIADMK alliance consecutively in 2011 and 2016.
Tamil Nationalism in politics
	
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (February 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Main article: Tamil Nationalism

Tamil Nationalism has been part of the Tamil political Arena ever since a Tamil identity pride has been created among the Tamil populace in the late 19th century. Dravidian movement and Tamil nationalism rose from the same roots. They differed in very few but important topics, such as eradication casteism , promoting religious equality and extermination of untouchability. While Dravidian parties take these topics at the same level of Promotion of Tamil, the Tamil organizations sole priority was promotion of Tamil. On multiple occasions they were religious and sometimes refused to acknowledge the caste problems.

During the Anti Hindi Imposition Movement, the Tamil Nationalist organizations converged with Dravidian parties on the common ground of Protecting and Promoting Tamil. In the next oncoming decades, the relevance of the Tamil Nationalist Parties reduced to a great degree. Still many Tamil Nationalist organizations keep on working on promotion of Tamil identity.

Such parties and their policies can be classified into a wider spectrum. There are organization which claim every person with an intent to promote Tamil identity as a Tamil. At the same time, few elements classify and deny Tamil identity to the people of Tamil Nadu based on Caste lines, which is in total contrast to the former type.

After the death of Velupillai Prabhakaran, a revival, even though not a big enough to create an impact in political balance, is seen. The success of this new wave is yet to be seen.
Political culture of Tamil Nadu
[icon]	
This section needs expansion with: You can help improve this page by writing about the political culture of Tamil Nadu.. You can help by adding to it. (February 2017)

Politics in Tamil Nadu has had a strongly socialist character since the rise of Dravidian politics in the 1960s. In Tamil Nadu, DMK and AIADMK are alternately elected by people in Tamil Nadu and a strong third party does not exist. Political parties in TamilNadu make sure that the people of the state receive the fruits of the modern technology. The parties in the rule have made sure that all the households have a television set, the womenfolk have access to work on the economy of their family by providing them household appliances and the students have all the necessary tools to reach and complete their education namely bicycle, textbooks, stationaries and ultimately laptops, even when faced with criticism from the liberals that they are bribing the people and dubbing the social justice schemes, freebies.[1][2][3] These social welfare schemes provide the Dravidian faction of the Tamilnadu politics over the other regional and national parties. Tamil Nadu has several caste parties who create Votebanks for ruling parties.[4] Many people from the Tamil film industry are active in Tamil Nadu politics. Some of the Chief Ministers of Tamil Nadu like MG Ramachandran, Karunanidhi and Jayalalithaa have their background in the Tamil film industry. The worship of party leader by members, is widely spread in Tamil Nadu, sometimes it reaches a fanatical level. This worship culture originates during the era of MGR.[5]

The youngsters were often a factor that change the dynamic of Tamil Nadu politics, what can be seen in Anti-Hindi agitations of Tamil Nadu, 2013 Anti–Sri Lanka protests and 2017 pro-jallikattu protests.
Political parties of Tamil Nadu
Tamil national parties

    Pattali Makkal Katchi
    All Indian Public Freedom Party
    Naam Tamilar Katchi
    Tamizhaga Murpokku Makkal Katchi
    Tamizhaga Vazhvurimai Katchi
    Ilantamilar Munnani Kazhagam (ITMK)
    Tamizhaga Janata Party
    Tamilar Vidiyal Katchi

Dravidian parties
Main article: Dravidian parties

Apolitical Dravidian parties

    Dravidar Kazhagam
    Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam
    Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam

Dravidian parties originating from Justice party

    Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam
    All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam
    MGR Kazhagam
    Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam
    All India Latchiya Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam

Dravidian parties without roots in Justice party

    Dhiravida Thelugar Munnetra Kazhagam
    Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK)
    Tamizhaga Dravida Makkal Katchi

Indian national parties

Congress parties

    Indian National Congress
    Tamil Maanila Kamraj Congress
    Tamil Nadu Makkal Congress
    Kamarajar Deseeya Congress
    Tamil Maanila Congress
    Tamizhaga Munnetra Congress

Communist parties

    Communist Party of India
    Communist Party of India (Marxist)
    Tamil Nadu Communist Party

Forward Bloc parties

    All India Forward Bloc (Subhasist)
    Democratic Forward Bloc
    Desiya Forward Bloc

Others

    Bharatiya Janata Party
    Abdulkalam Vision India Party
    Social Democratic Party of India
    All Indian Public Freedom Party
    Aam Aadmi Party

Religious parties

Hindu nationalist parties

    Hindu Makkal Katchi
    Akhil Bharatiya Hindu Mahasabha
    Shiv Sena[6]

Religious minority parties

    Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazagham
    All India Muslim League
    Manithaneya Makkal Katchi
    Indian Christian Front

Caste parties

    Tamil Nadu Salavaithozlilalars Party
    Ahila India Naadalum Makkal Katchi
    All India Moovendar Munnani Kazhagam
    All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi
    Kamarajar Adithanar Kazhagam
    Kongu Desa Makkal Katchi
    Kongunadu Munnetra Peravai
    Kongunadu Makkal Desia Katchi
    Kongunadu Makkal Katchi
    Kongunadu Munnetra Kazhagam
    Makkal Tamil Desam Katchi
    Moovendar Munnetra Kazhagam
    Moovendar Makkal Katchi
    Perunthalaivar Makkal Katchi
    Puthiya Needhi Katchi
    Tamil Desiyak Katchi

Dalit rights parties

    Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi
    Dalit Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam
    Ambedkar Makkal Iyakkam
    Puthiya Tamilagam
    Tamil Nadu Thalthapatha Makkal Munertra Kazhagam

Socialist parties

    Indhiya Jananayaga Katchi
    Makkal Needhi Maiyam
    Marxist Periarist Communist Party

Agrarian parties

    Uzhavar Uzhaippalar Katchi
    Indian Uzhavar Uzhaippalar Katchi
    Vivasayi Anbhu Katchi