Tennisthis.com

We got your tennis racquet reviews, string reviews, tournament recaps, player happenings, and much more right here!

    Home
    Tennis String Reviews
    Tennis Racquet Reviews
    Game Changer
    Accessories
        Pocket Radar for tennis review
        Scoreband Watch review
        String Advantage Pojie review
        Zensah Compression Elbow Sleeve review
    About
        Links
    Contact

US Open Women’s Final Incident: Final Thoughts

September 10, 2018 By G.O.A.T 0 Comments
US Open Women’s Final Incident: Final Thoughts

I've been on the fence about even writing on this topic, as it's so very touchy, though I have my views on what happened. I watched the match, the incident, and the aftermath several times over. I am deeply saddened for tennis after the match. We witnessed a moment that will go down in history, likely more memorable than that of John Millman beating Roger Federer, or Simona … [Read more...]
Wimbledon 5th Set Tie Breaker

July 13, 2018 By G.O.A.T 1 Comment
Wimbledon 5th Set Tie Breaker

There is a desperate need for a Wimbledon 5th Set Tie Breaker! It's happening again, another match going well into double-digit games in the fifth set. It happened almost 10 years ago, back in 2010 John Isner faced Frenchman Nicolas Mahut in an epic 3 day, 5 set battle. Wimbledon 5th Set Tie Breaker: More Long Matches It was the longest tennis match in history, with the firth … [Read more...]
2019 Babolat Pure Aero

July 10, 2018 By G.O.A.T 1 Comment
2019 Babolat Pure Aero

2018 keeps on giving us a great year for tennis gear, this time it's the 2019 Babolat Pure Aero line of tennis racquets! Currently, Rafael Nadal and several other players from the ATP & WTA tours use the current Pure Aero model - you can find a list of what racquets the pros use on the tour* 2019 Babolat Pure Aero: What's new? Well, not a lot from the technological … [Read more...]
Bouchard Wimbledon Tweet

July 5, 2018 By G.O.A.T 0 Comments
Bouchard Wimbledon Tweet

I don't really even know where to begin with this Bouchard Wimbledon tweet. I'm a little irked really, with pure absurdity from her tweet after her first round match. Don't worry, I'll get to exactly what she said in a moment. Bouchard Wimbledon Tweet The Canadian struggled in her second round match against Ashleigh Barty (WTA Rank #17) from Australia and yet was still unable … [Read more...]
Tennis Ball Kids

July 4, 2018 By G.O.A.T 0 Comments

Without the tennis ball kids, tennis would be a bit slower paced; however, the tennis ball kids have turned into a modern day tennis servant. As Wimbledon gets underway, I have seen some atrocious behaviors from the tennis players towards the tennis ball kids. They're, now, so much more than ball kids. Tennis Ball Kids: What is their job? Interestingly enough, their job is … [Read more...]
Federer’s Longevity

June 28, 2018 By G.O.A.T 0 Comments
Federer’s Longevity

This year the lawns of Wimbledon will be generating their usual tingles of expectation across the sporting world and wider world. 2018 is the second year when the Wimbledon Diary has been slightly different, this is the second year there have been three weeks between the end of the French Open and the start of Wimbledon.This extension may seem like a simple thing but in the … [Read more...]
2018 Wimbledon Seeds

June 27, 2018 By G.O.A.T 0 Comments
2018 Wimbledon Seeds

Well, the time has finally arrived, the 2018 Wimbledon seeds have been announced for both the ATP and WTA. There are some interesting seedings and some that are downright predictable. 2018 Wimbledon Seeds:ATP 1. FEDERER, Roger (SUI) 2. NADAL, Rafael (ESP) 3. CILIC, Marin (CRO) 4. ZVEREV, Alexander (GER) 5. DEL POTRO, Juan Martin (ARG) 6. DIMITROV, Grigor (BUL) 7. THIEM, … [Read more...]
New ProStaff RF 97

June 18, 2018 By G.O.A.T 0 Comments
New ProStaff RF 97

Wilson Advisory Staff Member and tennis icon Roger Federer and Wilson Sporting Goods Co., revealed today the new ProStaff RF 97 Autograph racquet. The new racquet, with the addition of vibrant, yet elegant, classic white accents at the three and nine o’clock positions, introduces the design concept of performance-enhancing graphics to the brand’s performance rackets. Wilson … [Read more...]
Federer to Uniqlo

June 17, 2018 By G.O.A.T 0 Comments
Federer to Uniqlo

Federer to Uniqlo UPDATE: Confirmed! Well, turns out, Federer did actually sign a ridiculous contract with Uniqlo. Federer to Uniqlo has happened at the start of the 2018 Wimbledon Championships. Uniqlo announced it via their Instagram account:UNIQLO is honored to welcome Roger Federer as our new Global Brand Ambassador. “Mr. Federer is one of the greatest … [Read more...]
Wilson + Luxilon Duo Hybrids

June 6, 2018 By G.O.A.T 0 Comments
Wilson + Luxilon Duo Hybrids

WILSON + LUXILON DUO STRING COLLECTION Two high performance forces in tennis string, Wilson + Luxilon, unite to create three new hybrid strings!Wilson + Luxilon have released the following hybrid tennis strings to suit ever tennis players needs:Wilson + Luxilon DUO POWER: An incredible blend of the best-selling Luxilon ALU Power fused with Wilson NXT Power string … [Read more...]
Next Page »
Follow TennisThis!
Facebook Google+ Twitter Instagram YouTube RSS E-mail
Latest Tennis Racquet Reviews
List of ATP Player Tennis Racquets
List of WTA Player Tennis Racquets
Yonex VCORE Pro 97 310g
TenX Pro Excalibur 303g review
Yonex VCORE Duel G 97 (310g) review
Wilson Burn 100S review
Head Graphene Prestige Rev Pro review
Babolat Pure Strike Tour review
Volkl V1 Pro review
Donnay Formula 100 review
Mantis Pro 295 review
2013 Babolat AeroPro Drive review
Dunlop Biomimetic F 3.0 Tour review
Head YouTek IG Extreme Pro 2.0 review
Mantis Tour 305 review
List of ATP & WTA Tennis Shoes
Latest Tennis String Reviews
List of ATP & WTA tennis strings
Tier One Firewire 17 review
Laserfibre JB Tour 17 reivew
Yonex Poly Tour Strike review
Laserfibre Native Tour 17 reivew
Weiss Cannon Fire Stroke 17 review
Weiss Cannon Ultra Cable 17 review
Diadem Solstice Power 17 review
Genesis True Grit 17 review
Victory Acelon Wildfire 16 (multi) review
Wilson RipSpin 16 White review
Babolat RPM Dual 17 review
Mantis Tri-Poly Spin 17 review
Acelon Seven 16L review
Solinco Tour Bite Soft 17 review
Solinco Tour Bite 19 review
Volkl Cyclone Tour 17 review
Clarke Poly Power Pro 17 review
Kirschbaum Pro Line X 17 review
Luxilon 4G review
Tier One Sports Tour Status 17 review
Search TennisThis.com


Read More http://www.tennisthis.com/